hello my name's Alex I'm one of the
expert teachers here at e2 language and
today we're talking about IELTS reading
in this session I'm gonna give you a
quick overview of IELTS reading general
and academic I'm gonna share with you a
reading strategy and it's a pretty
radical but super effective one then
we'll do some practice and today I'm
going to show you the computer-delivered
format for a reading text so let's start
with an overview of IELTS reading what
do you have to do in this part of the
test if you're taking the general
training test you have three sections
now section one is called social
survival there are a couple of short
texts related to social situations part
two is workplace survival and part three
there's a longer reading and this could
be anything a magazine article a journal
article something of general interest
and it's much longer than the texts you
get in part one - there are 40 questions
all up and you have one hour to do it
now for academic you have three sections
again but actually you have three long
texts in this case and they're between
700 and 1,000 words each again there are
40 questions and you have an hour to do
it
let's have a quick look at the text
we're going to use today it's here it's
a little bit shorter than a real
academic text or a real general part 3
text but similar in content and here are
the questions that were going to deal
with
I'm gonna start by showing you the
questions in the paper delivered format
which might be more familiar to you and
then I'm going to show you how they look
on the computer delivered version of
IELTS let's have a look at questions 1
to 7 on the left here I'll make them a
little bit bigger the instructions are
which section of the text contains the
following information choose the correct
letter A to E you may choose any letter
more than once so in the paper to live a
test you would be writing letters for
instance might be paragraph a here this
one might also come from paragraph a
this may also be in paragraph a it says
you may choose any letter more than once
and that's what it means you might find
this these bits of information in the
same paragraph but you can't write next
to question one a and B for instance so
use any letter more than once but only
one letter per answer and this question
type is called match information on the
computer it looks more like this so
they've put the questions into a table
still one to seven down here but
actually it's a bit easier now you just
need to tick the paragraph where you
find that information so game number one
might be from paragraph a number three
might be from paragraph a and so on now
let's look at questions eight to ten on
the top right here the instructions say
and look at the following statements and
the list of people below match each
statement with the correct person a B C
or D so in this case for instance for
question eight you'll need to say did a
Harold Cohen say this did be in
Goodfellow say it or C or D this is
called match features type of question
and by the way if you want extra
practice with any of these question
types we have heaps of them on our
platform just go to e to language comm
and sign up for free on the computer
this question looks like this it's also
in a table like the match information so
we've got question eight nine and ten
for the moment don't
about reading the questions we're going
to do that later and then the people
down the bottom a b c d and again rather
than write the less up you just need to
t so if number eight refers to Harold
Cohen you'll just click this box here if
it was Ian Goodfellow you click B and so
on and the last set of questions are
down here complete the notes below
choose no more than two words from the
passage for each answer this is a
sentence completion task and it looks
basically the same whether you're doing
it on computer or on paper
IELTS reading super strategy for the
moment I want you to forget everything
you've ever learned about IELTS reading
and strategies we're not going to skim
and we're not going to scan this
strategy is probably quite different to
something you've tried before but I
think you'll find it really effective
for these types of questions we looked
at this type of question before which is
information match and when you see this
question type you should think about
this strategy that I'm going to teach
you today and the reason is because if
you skim and scan for this type of
question you're probably not going to
find the answer and you're going to
waste a lot of time for instance if we
look at question 1 here a contrast
between different types of computer
generated art so the question is asking
me which paragraph talks about this
contrast between different types of
computer generated art but I'm not
looking for the word contrast or between
or different and in fact the whole
article is about computer generated art
so that's not a useful scanning word
either so without really understanding
what you're reading it's gonna be very
difficult to find this answer so rather
than go from the question to the text
we're going to start with the text and
go to the question I'm going to show you
what I mean and help you with the first
few paragraphs
let's do paragraph a together so I've
got the text on the left just paragraph
a questions 1 to 7 on the right and then
we're going to look at question 8 to 10
and 11 to 12 afterwards but for the
moment our full attention is on
paragraph a I'm going to read it fairly
slowly trying to understand if you're
doing the paper-based test at this point
I would be underlining maybe scribbling
notes in the margin if you're taking the
test on the computer I would use the
highlight function to highlight
important parts
let's read with AI becoming incorporated
into more aspects of everyday living
from writing to driving it's only
natural that artists would start to
expect
with artificial intelligence indeed
British auction house Christie's just
sold its first piece of AI art a blurred
face titled portrait of Edmund Bellamy
for four hundred and thirty two thousand
five hundred dollars the event led many
to question whether the final products
can truly be considered a piece of ass
if artificial intelligence is used to
create the images and if so given that
the creative process still requires the
input of an artist at what point do they
relinquish credit to the machine so once
we've read the paragraph you need to
resist the temptation to go back and
start reading it again or to jump around
different parts of it we're going to go
straight to the questions and try to
answer them without rereading paragraph
a so here are our information match
questions remember that the instruction
is which section of the text contains
the following information so we're
basically asking ourselves for each
question was this in paragraph a did I
read this let's do it together
number one a contrast between different
types of computer-generated art so I did
see something about art of course and I
saw something about AI but a contrast
between different types No the paragraph
didn't mention that I should mention at
this point the paragraph a and B are
going to take a bit longer than the
other paragraphs because we haven't read
the questions yet we haven't got an idea
of what the texts about but investing a
little bit of extra time here is going
to pay off later when you get to
paragraph D and E you've almost
memorized the questions and you're going
to really speed up let's keep going
number two a reference to an unintended
outcome I don't think we read anything
about unintended outcomes examples of
factors that create impressive art
factors that create impressive art no
now before the way a particular artwork
was created well I know that the poor
it was made with AI but not much detail
other than that so probably not this
five examples of AI in other areas of
daily life right at the beginning of
paragraph a it said AI was becoming
incorporated into more aspects of daily
living of everyday living from writing
to driving so yes so yes we did see
examples of AI in other areas of daily
life so we'll give a tick here so once
you've found one piece of information
that doesn't mean you should stop
reading this is not match headings this
is much information so remember there
may be two or three answers from this
paragraph so let's keep reading number
six the reaction of some to the sale of
an artwork over here it says the event
led many led many people to question
whether the final product can truly be
considered a piece of art so that is the
reaction of some people it led people to
question something so we can also give
this a tick in column a this information
was in paragraph a and the final one a
definition of algorithmic art well we
haven't seen anything about algorithmic
art yet so it's definitely not in
paragraph a so from those seven
questions we found two answers and we
don't stop there we also want to have a
look at the other question types and see
if we can answer some of those questions
before we leave paragraph a so here's
the next set of questions questions
eight to ten the instructions are look
at the following statements in the list
of people below match each statement
with the correct person a B C or D so
I'm focusing here on these four names
Harold
Ian Pierre and Daniel did we see any of
these names in paragraph a no we did it
so we don't need to even read questions
eight nine or ten at this point the
final set of questions are sentence
completion and these questions always
come in order so I'm just going to read
the first question and see if I can
answer
it if I can't then there's no point
reading the second one question 11 in a
generative adversarial Network one
algorithm has to create images and the
other has to them okay so we haven't
read anything about a generative
adversarial Network yet so I can't
answer question 11 I'm going to ignore
question 12 as well so that is the end
of paragraph a and hopefully if we've
read carefully we don't need to come
back to it at all
instead we move on to paragraph B and go
through the same process all over again
remember that I said paragraph a and B
tend to take a little bit longer than
the other paragraph so let's do B
together and then I'll give you a chance
to practice on your own
here's paragraph B let's read it over
the last 50 years several artists have
written computer programs to generate
art also known as algorithmic art
it requires the artist to write detailed
code with an actual visual outcome in
mind one of the earliest practitioners
of this form is Harold Cohen who wrote
the program Aaron to produce drawings
that followed a set of rules Cohen had
created so straightaway I've seen the
word algorithmic and I've seen the name
Harold Cohen so I know that I've got
some work to do so let's start with the
match information questions and again
we're gonna go from top to bottom not
jumping around not skimming and scanning
number one did we read this in paragraph
B a contrast between different types of
computer-generated art did it give us a
contrast no it didn't
a reference to an unintended outcome
something a person didn't expect to
happen no examples of factors that
create impressive art have we got
examples of factors there No
number four the way a particular artwork
was created an important thing here is a
particular artwork so we know how Harold
Cohen produced his drawings but one
particular artwork no the paragraph
didn't tell us about that five and six
we've already answered but if you're not
confident then you should check them
again here and number seven a definition
of algorithmic art up here at the start
it says artists have written computer
programs to generate art also known as
algorithmic art so algorithmic art is
computer programs that generate art
that's the definition in the part before
it in the sentence so yes this paragraph
did contain a definition we give column
B a tick on to the next set of questions
now and we saw this named Harold Cohen
one of the earliest practitioners is
Harold Cohen who wrote the program to
produce drawings following a set of
rules he created so let's go through 8 9
and 10 and see does this reflect Harold
Cohen or not so number eight did Harold
Cohen develop algorithms used to make
most of the recent AI art did he develop
algorithms used to make most of the
recent art it doesn't say that right
number nine
did he research the minds reaction to
art no number ten did he develop a
computer program to create art according
to his vision back to the paragraph it
said it requires the artist to write
code with an actual visual outcome in
mind one of the earliest practitioners
of this form is Harold Cohen so that's a
pretty good representation of ten he
developed a computer program to create
art according to his vision so let's
give that a tick ten a Harold Cohen for
questions 11 and 12 just check again
have we read about a generative
adversarial Network not yet so we can
ignore eleven
twelve again so we've done paragraph a
and paragraph B I want you to have a go
now at paragraph C D and E
here's paragraph C now because this is a
new strategy I don't want to worry about
timing so just pause the recording
whenever you need to read or to answer
the questions here's the paragraph pause
and read it and here are questions one
to seven again pause the video and try
to answer as many questions as you can
let's check this together now number one
a contrast between different types of
computer-generated art this part of
paragraph C contains this contrast
particularly the second sentence artists
create algorithms not to follow a set of
rules that's one type of
computer-generated art but to learn a
specific aesthetic by analyzing
thousands of images that's the other
type of computer-generated art so we put
a tick in column C column C contains
this information question to a reference
to an unintended outcome and three
factors that create impressive art were
not included in paragraph C but there
was more information about how these
artists use technology to produce the
portrait of Edmund Bellamy one
particular artwork so that was questions
for question 4 was in paragraph C now
here are questions 8 to 12 pause the
recording and see how many you can
answer
let's check first thing you probably
noticed was the name Pierre for trail
but when you read eight and nine and
this can happen in a question like this
there may be a name that doesn't fit any
of the statements and in fact in this
case there are three statements and four
names so you could be certain that one
of them will not fit for question is 11
to 12 we haven't reached this section
yet so we can't answer we're up to
paragraphs D and E these are the final
two paragraphs so I'm going to put them
on the screen pause the video and take
as long as you need to answer all the
questions remember to follow the
strategy by reading the paragraph first
and the questions second
pause the video now
and here are the rest of the questions
you
let's go through the questions together
and by the way if you want to do this in
the paper delivered format just jump
over onto our blog where you can
download it so hopefully you notice that
for questions 1 to 7 none of the
information came from paragraph D but
question 2 a reference to an unintended
outcome was mentioned at the start of
paragraph ease so we put a tick in the e
: and number 3 examples of factors that
create impressive art also came from
paragraph e for question 8 the person
who developed algorithms used to make
most of the recent AI art this was Ian
good fellow so we took column B for Ian
number 9 the person who researched the
minds reaction to art was down in
paragraph E and that was Daniel Berlin
so we tick column D for Daniel and
finally we reached questions 11 and 12
question 11 came from paragraph D the
final sentence says one generates random
images the other has been taught to via
the input how to judge these images and
deem which best align with the input so
question 11 in a generative adversarial
Network which we finally were introduced
to in paragraph D one algorithm has to
create images and the other has to judge
them for question 12 this came from
paragraph E the question is an algorithm
trained on portraits could create a set
of and in the text a generative
adversarial Network being said portraits
could end up producing a series of
deformed faces and that is our answer
could create a set of deformed faces
so how did you go did you get them all
correct and did you find that strategy
useful let me know in the comment
section below let's recap it's important
to look at the type of questions first
this type of strategy works best when
you're dealing with much information
like we did today or match headings
before you start reading make sure you
decide on your strategy and stick to it
if you're reading paragraph by paragraph
as we did today aim to read the text
once and the questions many times some
people feel that this type of strategy
may be a little slow but it's actually
very efficient but the trick is to read
the paragraphs once if you read them
again and again and again and read the
questions again and again and again yes
you're not going to have enough time so
part of the preparation for IELTS is to
read efficiently if you want to boost
your topic vocabulary on today's theme
which was art jump on our blog follow
the link below and download our IELTS
topic toolkit we've got 20 years for
words with definitions and examples
speaking questions essay topics all
about art plus a sample essay and extra
resources to help you get across this
common theme don't forget to subscribe
like comment and share this video with
your friends so that's it have a go at
this strategy on your own and if you
want to study with someone come and join
us at a to language calm
you